---  
title: "Team Viva"  
---  

## Overview

The main aim of the *Team Viva* is to give you the opportunity to discuss the ROS application that you (*as a team*) have developed for Task 3; to explain your approach, the main logic, and why you chose to take this approach; and to highlight any novel aspects of your work that you are particularly proud of. It is also a way for us to ensure that the work you have submitted for Task 3 is your own (based on how well you can explain and defend it).[^part-a] 

[^part-a]: The Viva is based entirely on the work that you have done for Task 3. We are not interested in anything related to Assignment #2 Part A (Tasks 1 & 2).

The Viva is assessed independently of Task 3, so even if your Task 3 implementation doesn't quite go to plan when it's assessed, this is an opportunity for you to explain your *intentions*: what *should* have happened, and why it might not have worked out quite right on the day. As such, assessment of the Viva is *independent* to your team's performance in Task 3, so even if you score 0/40 marks in Task 3 you could still attain full marks (20/20) for the Viva if you defend your work well. 

## Use of Generative AI

You may wish to use Generative AI to support your team’s work on Task 3, but you must use this to *inform* your work, not *create* it.

During the Vivas we may ask you to explain specific details about the code that you have submitted for Task 3, its purpose and function, and why you chose to implement it in this way. If we suspect code has been generated by AI and where team members are unable to explain any aspect of it to us satisfactorily, the submission will be investigated for academic misconduct. Such cases could result in the team in question receiving 0/60 marks for Assignment #2 Part B overall.

For more information on the use of AI in assignments please refer to [this section of the COM Student Handbook](https://sites.google.com/sheffield.ac.uk/com-programme-information/programme-information/assessment#h.noi4ntlgsnyp), as well as [central University guidance on the use of AI in assessments](https://sheffield.ac.uk/study-skills/digital/generative-ai/assessment).

### Acknowledge, Describe, Evidence

All teams **MUST** include an `AI-Declaration.md` file at the root of their package directory:

``` { .txt .no-copy }
com2009_teamXX_2026/AI-Declaration.md
```

This file must be named exactly as stated above. The content of this **must follow the template provided below**, and must be completed *accurately*, to reflect your team's use of AI for Task 3:

<center>[The `AI-Declaration.md` template](./ai-declaration.md){ .md-button target="_blank"}</center>

!!! warning
    Failure to include the AI Declaration file in your package repository by the Assignment #2 Part B deadline will result in penalties being applied to your team's mark.

## Logistics

Team Vivas will take place during [the Spring Exam Period](https://sheffield.ac.uk/new-students/standard-exam-dates-venues){target="_blank"}. These will take place in Diamond Computer Room 5.

Once the final Exam Timetable has been released (early May, [more details here](https://students.sheffield.ac.uk/exams/timetables){target="_blank"}), teams will be invited to select a preference for when they would like their Viva to take place. You will be able to select either a morning (between 9 AM and 12 Noon) or afternoon (between 1 and 4 PM) slot on a specific date. There will be 6 slots available per morning / afternoon (i.e. 30 minute slots) and preferences will be made on a first come, first served basis: once all slots are taken, then no further bookings can be made for that date / time.

There will be a deadline for submitting these preferences and after this deadline (and before the start of the Spring Exam Period) a final timetable will be released. Teams who don't submit a preference will be assigned a slot at random.

Bookings should be made **as a team**, so you should agree with all team members on your date/time preferences (if you have any) before submitting these to us. 

### Schedule

We will start each Viva by running the assessment of your Task 3 submission on a robot in the Computer Room 5 robot arena. All team members will be able to observe this assessment of Task 3 along with the Teaching Team (Tom & Alex). This will take up the first 5 minutes of the Viva (at most). There will be no opportunity to modify your code during the Viva, nor will you be able to request for the assessment to be restarted at any point, or re-run in its entirety. **The assessment of Task 3 will be done only once**.

After your team's Task 3 assessment is complete, we will commence a Q&A session, which will last up to 15 minutes.

A camera and microphone(s) will be set up to record the Task 3 assessment and the discussions that take place during the Q&A session. These recordings will be used by the teaching team only. 

### Attendance

Attendance at the Vivas is compulsory, teams who fail to attend their Viva will be awarded 0/20 marks for this component of Assignment #2 Part B. We will be unable to reschedule Vivas for teams who do not attend their scheduled slot.

**ALL** team members are expected to attend their Team's Viva, unless any individual has valid and approved extenuating circumstances that prevent them from attending (any extenuating circumstances must be submitted in the usual way, according to [University Policy and Procedure](https://cms-students.shef.ac.uk/extenuating-circumstances/policy-procedure){target="_blank"}).

## Assessment

The assessment of Task 3 will be as per [the marking criteria outlined here](./task3.md#marking). More details on how the Team Vivas will be assessed is provided below.

The Team Viva is worth 20 of the 60 marks for [Assignment #2 Part B](README.md). 

### Assessing Individual Contributions to Team Work

Much like Assignment #2 Part A, you will be asked to complete a *Buddycheck* Peer Evaluation for Part B (*"Peer Evaluation 3"*), the deadline for this will be **23:59 on Friday of Week 12**. 

Buddycheck will therefore be used to determine individual contributions to team work, and how individual marks are calculated based on final team marks for Assignment #2 Part B. In some cases, however, the Viva *may* be used to verify information that has been highlighted by the Buddycheck peer evaluation reports. We will review Buddycheck reports prior to you attending your Viva, and if significant issues or conflicts are apparent from these reports then we *may* ask the team, or individuals within the team, to elaborate on these. 

Each member of the team should therefore be prepared to explain and provide examples of their individual contributions to the team work during the Viva.

Ultimately though, the main aims of the Viva are [as stated above](#overview), and so the main focus will be to assess the team as a whole. 

### Core Assessment Points

At a minimum, we will ask teams to describe / discuss the following and support all explanations with examples (i.e. referring to specific parts of your code).

* A high level overview of how your implementation works (i.e. the core strategies / logic of your application).
* The intention behind specific algorithms.
* An explanation of certain behaviours that were observed during the Task 3 assessment, and indication of the specific parts of your code that were responsible for this.
* Discussion of potential weak points or edge cases and how these could be improved.

### Marking Criteria

TODO: A rubric... 

### Release of Marks

As above, teams will be able to observe the assessment of their Task 3 submission at the start of the Viva, and so *provisional* marks for Task 3 will be discussed with teams as soon as this has taken place. Such provisional marks *may* be subject to change due to any penalties that may be applied (where applicable) and once all Task 3 recordings have been reviewed (after the Vivas have taken place). 

The marks awarded for the Team Viva itself will not be discussed with teams on the day. *Final* marks and *feedback* for both assessment components (Task 3 and the Team Viva) will be released within 5 weeks of the Assignment #2 Part B submission deadline. 
